Figure name as it appears on cardback: Luke Skywalker

Luke Skywalker is a fictional character in the Star Wars franchise. He was introduced in the original Star Wars film (1977) later renamed A New Hope and its novelization (1976). He is the main protagonist of the original trilogy, and also appears in the sequel trilogy. Raised as a moisture farmer on the desert planet Tatooine, Luke joins the Rebel Alliance and becomes a pivotal figure in its struggle against the Galactic Empire. He trains as a Jedi Knight under the Jedi Masters Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, and eventually confronts his father, the Sith Lord Darth Vader. 

Mark Hamill portrays Luke in all the films of the original and sequel trilogies. 

The vintage action figure is often referred to as: Luke, Farmboy, OG, O.G., Original, First 12, 12 back Luke.

Available from 1978 until 1984. Spanning the Star Wars, Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Jedi cardabcks.

Part of the very first Star Wars Kenner figures (the Early Bird Certificate package) which were available to be mailed in early 1978, starting around February or March. 
While the certificate itself was sold during the holiday season in 1977 (often called the Early Bird Kit), the actual figures: Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, Chewbacca, and R2-D2 did not ship to customers until the following spring of 1978.
Also part of the Wave A original 12 Back cardbacks. 

Accessories

The exact correct saber depends on the Luke variant.
Early Kader figures are more likely to come with lettered M1.
Kader China and French Trilogo figures came with round tip M5.
Glasslite came with M8.
Early Unitoy used Double Telescoping (DT) circled M1, then mostly M2, later M3. (part of the Early Bird set)
Brown-haired Unitoy Lukes are generally associated with M3.
Taiwan figures are associated with M7.
Smile figures used lettered M1 on 12-backs, then M5 later.
Some Trilogo era Smile no-COO Lukes with light brown hair were packed with a 'Bespin handheld' saber M3.

Figure variant families:
M1. Kader / Poch / Kader China / Meccano / Glasslite
M2. Unitoy / Poch / PBP
M3. Taiwan
M4. Smile

Collector notes:

Variants matter.
Accessory match depends on COO family and production stage.
Glasslite Luke has a unique resident saber.
Some Poch and Trilogo examples complicate simple matching.


Sources:

https://www.variantvillain.com/characters/sw/luke-skywalker/
https://www.variantvillain.com/accessory-guide/double-telescoping-lightsaber/
https://www.variantvillain.com/accessory-guide/telescoping-lightsaber/
https://www.imperialgunnery.com/lightsabers.htm

